Document the possibility of vars/main and defaults/main being directories (#1320)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/playbook_guide/playbooks_reuse_roles.rst

Roles may also include modules and other plugin types in a directory called ``library``. For more information, please refer to :ref:`embedding_modules_and_plugins_in_roles` below.

> Directories ``defaults`` and ``vars`` may also include *nested directories*. If your variables file is a directory, Ansible reads all variables files and directories inside in lexicographical order. If a nested directory contains variables files as well as directories, Ansible reads the directories first. Below is an example of ``vars/main`` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Directories ``defaults`` and ``vars`` may also include *nested directories*. If your variables file is a directory, Ansible reads all variables files and directories inside in lexicographical order. If a nested directory contains variables files as well as directories, Ansible reads the directories first. Below is an example of a ``vars/main`` directory:
```

> Directories ``defaults`` and ``vars`` may also include *nested directories*. If your variables file is a directory, Ansible reads all variables files and directories inside in lexicographical order. If a nested directory contains variables files as well as directories, Ansible reads the directories first. Below is an example of a ``vars/main`` directory:

Reviewer 2: s/lexicographical/alphabetical/  ... makes it less likely someone needs to look it up in a dictionary.

.. code-block:: text

  roles/
      common/          # this hierarchy represents a "role"
          vars/
              main/    #  <-- variables associated with this role
                  first_nested_directory/
                      first_variables_file.yml
                  second_nested_directory/
                      second_variables_file.yml
                  third_variables_file.yml

> 

Reviewer 2: very nice example!

> - If roles/x/tasks/main.yml exists, Ansible adds the tasks in that file to the play.

Reviewer 2: i would rewrite this whole section:

roles look for a main/main.yml/main.yaml by default (you can specify otherwise with include/import_role) in the following directories :

note: vars and default can also match to a directory of the same name and will process all the files contained therin

Reviewer 2: note: meta/ is an exception as it doesn't allow for customization

        - common
        - webservers

> When you use the ``roles`` option at the play level, each role 'x' looks for a ``main.yml/main.yaml/main`` in the following directories:

Reviewer 3: I find this formatting confusing: ``main.yml/main.yaml/main``.   How about:
looks for a ``main.yml`` (also`` main.yaml`` and ``main``)

That's how it's described at the start of the roles directory structure section.

> When you use the ``roles`` option at the play level, each role 'x' looks for a a ``main.yml`` (also ``main.yaml`` and ``main``) in the following directories:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you use the ``roles`` option at the play level, each role 'x' looks for a ``main.yml`` (also ``main.yaml`` and ``main``) in the following directories:
```

> When you use the ``roles`` option at the play level, each role 'x' looks for a main.yml/main.yaml/main by default (you can specify otherwise with include/import_role) in the following directories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use the ``roles`` option at the play level, each role 'x' looks for a ``main.yml/main.yaml/main`` by default (you can specify otherwise with ``include/import_role``) in the following directories:
```

> When you use the ``roles`` option at the play level, each role 'x' looks for a ``main.yml/main.yaml/main`` by default (you can specify otherwise with ``include/import_role``) in the following directories:

Reviewer 2: with `roles:` it is not a default, but the only way it works, I would rephrase to avoid confusion as the 'default' applies only to include/import_role.

When using a role, the following directories will be searched for a file:
...

The specific file searched for depends on how you call the role, ``main.yml/main.yaml/main``  is always used when invoked from the `roles:` keyword and is the default for `include_role/import_role` but the latter can override and point to alternate file names.

Author: Would rephrasing it like this be appropriate?

```
When you use the ``roles`` option at the play level, each role 'x' looks for a ``main.yml/main.yaml/main`` file (if you use ``include_role/import_role``, you can specify a different file name) in the following directories:
```

This way I would remove the confusion and still keep in the relevant information. I was also thinking that I could move the part in the parentheses into this note:
```
.. note::
    The ``meta`` directory is an exception because it does not allow for customization.
```
The result would look like this:
```
.. note::
    If you use ``include_role/import_role``, you can specify a different file name. The ``meta`` directory is an exception because it does not allow for customization.    
```

> - roles/x/tasks/
> - roles/x/handlers/
> - roles/x/vars/
> - roles/x/defaults/
> - roles/x/meta/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``roles/x/tasks/``
- ``roles/x/handlers/``
- ``roles/x/vars/``
- ``roles/x/defaults/``
- ``roles/x/meta/``
```

- Any copy, script, template or include tasks (in the role) can reference files in roles/x/{files,templates,tasks}/ (dir depends on task) without having to path them relatively or absolutely.

.. note::

>     ``vars`` and ``defaults`` can also match to a directory of the same name and will process all the files contained therein. See :ref:`Role directory structure <role_directory_structure>` for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``vars`` and ``defaults`` can also match to a directory of the same name and Ansible will process all the files contained in that directory. See :ref:`Role directory structure <role_directory_structure>` for more details.
```

.. note::

>     ``meta`` directory is an exception as it doesn't allow for customization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The ``meta`` directory is an exception because it does not allow customization.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: It's unclear to me if this note applies to ALL main.yml, or only the ``vars/`` and ``defaults`` dir. @bcoca - do you know the answer here?

Reviewer 2: it applies to tasks, handlers, vars and defaults, i would just link to improt_role/include_role docs where the `from_X` options are detailed

            * If ``required`` is ``false``/missing, ``default`` may be specified (assumed ``null`` if missing).
            * Ensure that the default value in the docs matches the default value in the code. The actual

>               default for the role variable will always come from ``defaults/main.yml`` or ``defaults/main/\*``.

Reviewer 2: it is main/main.yml/main.yaml or 'specified' .. probably a section just explaining how this works and precedence

Author: I'm struggling a bit with finding out how the user should specify the custom main file. The closest explanation I found is in this section https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/playbook_guide/playbooks_reuse_roles.html#role-directory-structure where the documentation mentions adding other YAML files in some directories, but I think it's something else, as these file already have the .yml extension. I assume that the explanation I am looking for already exists, and I just want to add a link to that after I explain the precedence. Could you please help me?

            * If ``required`` is ``false``/missing, ``default`` may be specified (assumed ``null`` if missing).
            * Ensure that the default value in the docs matches the default value in the code. The actual

>               default for the role variable will always come from the ``defaults/main.yml`` file (also ``main.yaml``, ``main`` or 'specified'). To learn more about these options see :ref:`Role directory structure <role_directory_structure>`.

Reviewer 2: from the role's defaults (for the matching directory and file names see :ref:`Role directory structure <role_directory_structure>`)

Author: I think it could be pretty useful to see the file path and name right away, instead of having to navigate to a different section. Maybe I would just rephrase it a bit, or remove the 'specified' option, as it is relevant only under certain circumstances

Reviewer 2: then i would make notes/refs with every inclusion of the 'default path' and explain that though we show only one version, many are possible.

Author: I'm not sure what exactly you mean by that. I thought the possible versions are main.yml/main.yaml/main (or specified)

Reviewer 3: To explain @bcoca's comment - I believe he is saying if we spell out every options here, we should spell it out everywhere we talk about defaults.

In this instance, though, I agree with bcoca's [initial comment](https://github.com/ansible/ansible-documentation/pull/1320/files#r1586403867) - let's not spell them all out here. While I would in general agree that having short information like this handy, there are two reasons I think we should not do it in this case:
1 - This is a piece of reference documentation, so being more verbose is not necessarily helpful.
2 - If this changes in the future, we have more places to update the content. So having one place where it's defined makes things easier to maintain.
